---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about
order: 1
nav: true
---

## Aims and scope

Computo has been created in the context of a reproducibility crisis in
science, which calls for higher standards in the publication of
scientific results. Computo aims at promoting
computational/algorithmic contributions in statistics and machine
learning that provide insight into which models or methods are the
most appropriate to address a specific scientific question.

The journal welcomes the following types of contributions:

- New methods with original stats/ML developments, or numerical
  studies that illustrate theoretical results in stats/ML;
- Case studies or surveys on stats/ML methods to address a specific
(type of) question in data analysis neutral comparison studies that
provide insight into when, how, and why the compared methods perform
well or less well;
- Software papers to present implementations of stats/ML algorithms or
  to feature the use of a package/toolbox.

## An open journal with reproducible contributions

Computo is free for readers and authors.

The reproducibility of numerical results is a necessary condition for
publication in Computo. In particular, submissions must include all
necessary data (e.g. via zenodo repositories) and code.  For
contributions featuring the implementation of methods/algorithms, the
quality of the provided code is assessed during the review process.
We accept contributions in the form of notebooks (e.g. Rmarkdown, or
Jupyter).

The reviews are open, i.e. visible to any reader after acceptance of
the contribution. Reviewers may choose to remain anonymous or not.

## Thanks

We rely on [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/),
[BibTeX](http://www.bibtex.org/), the
[aI-folio](https://github.com/alshedivat/al-folio) Jekyll theme,
[Rmarkdown](https://rmarkdown.rstudio.com/),
[Jupyter-book](https://jupyterbook.org/) and we drawn our inspiration
from [Rescience-C](https://rescience.github.io/) and
[distill.pub](https://distill.pub/) among others.
